# Outsourcing and Outshoring Software Development
[Outsourcing and outshoring software development](https://www.designveloper.com/en/guide/offshore-software-development/#:~:text=is%20software%20development.-,The%20biggest%20advantage%20of%20offshore%20software%20development%20is%20the%20ability,that%20need%20to%20be%20considered) has seen a lot of growth in the recent years. While smaller firms who do not need a full time department in fields like cybersecurity and software development may choose outsource their needs for some small projects to reduce cost, big techs are starting to do so for the same reasons. However, many bigger firms has their own developer workflow. Outshoring is supposed to be cost saving and offer a shorter time to market, but it may be hard and time consuming for contractors to onboard, which adds more inefficiency to the already difficult overseeing process. Although it can help companies manage risk in ways that firms do not need to be constantly hiring or laying off employees based on project needs, the lack of prior collaboration experience, the need of communication, and quality and progress checking actually may add more difficulty and inefficiency when larger firms are attempting to offshore. 

Comment from Kevin Huang(ch3936):

This is a fun to read article that emphasizes the need for businesses to carefully weigh the pros and cons before deciding to outsource their software development projects overseas. What I found most interesting during reading this this article is that it discusses how outsourcing can help businesses scale their IT development teams efficiently. By outsourcing to specialized software development companies, businesses can access a pool of talent and resources that may be challenging to find locally, particularly in smaller or rural areas. This is really informative and I have learnt a lot from it.


